CARLSBAD, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Thermo Fisher Scientific, the world leader in serving science, today announced the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the Oncomine™ Dx Express Test on the Ion Torrent™ Genexus™ Dx Integrated Sequencer as an in vitro diagnostic (IVD) assay for use as a companion diagnostic (CDx) for Dizal’s ZEGFROVY® (sunvozertinib) and in tumor profiling. This approval brings rapid next-generation sequencing (NGS) to decentralized clinical settings closer to where patients receive care. With the ability to deliver essential genomic insights in as little as 24 hours*, this approval helps advance the accessibility of precision oncology tools and enables more timely decision making. A patient’s tumor profile has the potential to guide precision oncology care. However, delays in obtaining results can hinder clinicians’ ability to make informed decisions, potentially causing patients to miss out on targeted therapies, which can impact treatment efficacy and patient outcomes. Furthermore, a significant number of patients miss out on targeted therapies due to inefficiencies or lack of access to testing, highlighting the critical role of timely genomic profiling. The Oncomine Dx Express Test was designed to simplify the NGS workflow and connect patients everywhere to precision oncology. Now with the Oncomine Dx Express Test on the Ion Torrent Genexus Dx Integrated Sequencer, laboratories across a variety of clinical settings can deliver rapid genomic profiling with exceptional accuracy and ease, helping to ensure patients can benefit from the latest advancements in precision oncology. The Oncomine Dx Express Test is intended for use as a companion diagnostic for ZEGFROVY (sunvozertinib), a targeted therapy from Dizal, to identify patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations. In addition, the test has been approved for tumor profiling in solid tumors and detects cancer mutations with evidence of clinical significance and potential clinical significance across 46 genes. Accelerating informed precision oncology care The Genexus Dx Integrated Sequencer automates the NGS workflow — from sample preparation to data analysis and reporting — making the technology accessible to more laboratories, including those that are smaller and without previous NGS expertise. It also enables laboratories to generate timely CDx results as well as tumor profiling reports in as little as 24 hours, helping accelerate insights and access to precision oncology. “NGS has been instrumental in advancing precision oncology, but these insights often aren’t available early enough to inform real-world care,” said Kathy Davy, president of Clinical Next-Generation Sequencing at Thermo Fisher Scientific. “With our rapid NGS solutions, we aim to deliver timely results to clinicians and their patients prior to the initiation of treatment. We’ve been leading companion diagnostics in collaboration with our pharma partners for a decade, and this approval signifies the next step in our journey bringing rapid, decentralized NGS CDx to drug development. We are proud of our collaboration with Dizal to bring ZEGFROVY to the US market.” Biodesix, one of Thermo Fisher’s collaborators in the validation of Oncomine Dx Express Test on the Genexus Dx Integrated Sequencer, will be the first lab to launch testing services. “The Biodesix team is excited at the prospect of using the newly FDA approved Genexus Dx Integrated Sequencer for clinical testing using the Oncomine Dx Express test and for supporting our biopharma client projects,” said Gary Pestano, Ph.D., chief development officer at Biodesix. "Automation of the systems for nucleic acid purification, library preparation, sequencing and report generation has the potential to significantly improve our NGS laboratory workflows by reducing hands-on time and by delivering rapid turnaround times - from sample receipt to results.” ZEGFROVY (sunvozertinib) CDx approval ZEGFROVY, developed by Dizal, was granted FDA accelerated approval following Breakthrough Therapy designation and Priority Review for the treatment of NSCLC patients with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations. With the approval of the Oncomine Dx Express Test on the Genexus Dx Integrated Sequencer as a companion diagnostic for this therapy, clinicians can now quickly identify eligible patients – supporting earlier intervention and expanding access to targeted therapy. “ZEGFROVY is a highly effective and currently the only approved EGFR TKI targeting EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations. The approval of ZEGFROVY will have a significant impact on platinum-pretreated patients with NSCLC harboring EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations, a difficult-to-treat lung cancer subtype,” said Susan Chen, senior vice president, head of clinical operation at Dizal. “Today’s FDA approval of the Oncomine Dx Express Test offers access to ZEGFROVY through decentralized companion diagnostic testing. The ability to match patients to our therapy quickly and accurately, regardless of mutation location, can improve outcomes for this patient population.”
The US Food and Drug Administration has granted accelerated approval to sunvozertinib (trade name Zegfrovy) from Dizal (Jiangsu) Pharmaceutical (SSE: 688192) for adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 20 insertion mutations, as detected by an FDA-approved test, whose disease has progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy. The greenlight comes almost two years after scoring after the drug gained approval in China and the news pushed Dizal’s shares up 9.5% to 64.56 renminbi. The FDA also approved the Oncomine Dx Express Test (Life Technologies Corporation, now owned by Thermo Fisher) as a companion diagnostic device to aid in detecting EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations in patients with NSCLC who may be eligible for treatment with Zegfrovy.
US FDA approves Regeneron's blood cancer therapy By Puyaan Singh July 2, 202511:02 AM PDTUpdated July 2, 2025 The Regeneron Pharmaceuticals company logo is seen on a building at the company's Westchester campus in Tarrytown The Regeneron Pharmaceuticals company logo is seen on a building at the company's Westchester campus in Tarrytown, New York, U.S. September 17, 2020. Picture taken September 17, 2020. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tab Companies Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc Johnson & Johnson Pfizer Inc Show more companies July 2 (Reuters) - Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (REGN.O), opens new tab said on Wednesday the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved its drug for a type of blood cancer called multiple myeloma that has recurred in patients who had received at least four other therapies earlier. Shares of the company rose 2% following the approval.
On June 18, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the first medicine to prevent HIV that only has to be taken twice a year. People who are at high risk for HIV can now take the injection—called lenacapavir and sold as Yeztugo—just once every six months. The approval is a milestone in the fight against HIV and could transform the epidemic. While anti-HIV drug treatments have helped millions of people suppress the virus to undetectable levels so that they don’t spread it to others—and have also allowed people who are HIV-negative to maintain their status when used to prevent infection—a regimen of daily pills means that compliance, and therefore effectiveness, is often not as strong as it should be. Advertisement The video player is currently playing an ad. In two studies, scientists at Gilead, which developed lenacapavir, showed that the drug was 100% effective at protecting cisgender women from becoming HIV positive as compared to daily oral pills (called PrEP, short for pre-exposure prophylaxis). In men who have sex with men and gender-diverse people, the drug was 96% effective. Read More: ‘This is About Children’s Lives’: Gavi’s CEO Makes the Case for Funding the Global Vaccine Alliance “Lenacapavir used by itself for prevention is a huge breakthrough,” says Dr. David Ho, professor of microbiology, immunology, and medicine at Columbia University who pioneered combining anti-HIV drugs to suppress the virus and its ability to mutate to become resistant to treatment. “Its potential is great in curtailing the epidemic.” But advocacy groups and global AIDS organizations raise concerns about whether that potential will be fully realized, given recent cuts to U.S.-supported programs for HIV treatment and prevention around the world. 
FDA approval of injectable lenacapavir marks progress for HIV prevention 19 June 2025 Departmental update Reading time: Less than a minute (261 words) The World Health Organization (WHO) welcomes the approval by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of injectable lenacapavir for HIV prevention. This milestone follows promising 2024 results from the PURPOSE 1 and PURPOSE 2 trials, which demonstrated the safety and efficacy of lenacapavir across diverse populations and settings. Administered just twice a year, lenacapavir offers sustained protection and adds to the growing range of HIV prevention options. WHO currently recommends oral PrEP, the dapivirine vaginal ring, and long-acting injectable cabotegravir (CAB-LA) as options for HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). Lenacapavir’s discreet, long-acting formulation may help overcome key barriers such as daily pill burden, frequent clinic visits, and stigma associated with HIV prevention. “This regulatory milestone brings us one step closer to expanding access to an innovative HIV prevention option in lenacapavir,” said Dr Meg Doherty, Director of WHO’s Global HIV, Hepatitis and STI Programmes. “WHO plays a key role in supporting countries through guideline development, prequalification, and regulatory processes. We are working with partners and national authorities to ensure lenacapavir reaches people who need it most – quickly, safely and equitably.” WHO guidelines for injectable lenacapavir will be released on 14 July 2025, during the International AIDS Conference in Kigali. FDA approval also paves the way for WHO prequalification, which can accelerate national regulatory approvals following endorsement by a stringent regulatory authority (SRA) and procurement by donor agencies like the the Global Fund. In parallel, WHO is working with the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to support the Medicines 4 All (M4All) mechanism, which facilitates regulatory pathways in countries adopting lenacapavir.
Lab-grown salmon gets FDA approval Wildtype’s cultivated salmon is available in a single Portland restaurant, but has plans to expand. by Dominic Preston Jun 9, 2025, 3:43 AM PDT 16 Comments16 New Wildtype_Salmon_Nigiri_Topped_With_Finger_Lime___Photo_Credit__Wildtype_a Image: Wildtype Dominic Preston Dominic Preston is a news editor with over a decade’s experience in journalism. He previously worked at Android Police and Tech Advisor. The FDA has issued its first ever approval on a safety consultation for lab-grown fish. That makes Wildtype only the fourth company to get approval from the regulator to sell cell-cultivated animal products, and its cultivated salmon is now available to order from one Portland restaurant. Wildtype announced last week that the FDA had sent a letter declaring it had “no questions” about whether the cultivated salmon is “as safe as comparable foods,” the customary final step in the FDA’s approval process for lab-grown animal products. The FDA has sole responsibility for regulating most lab-grown seafood, whereas the task is shared with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for cultivated meat. The FDA’s pre-market safety consultation is voluntary, but is “helpful for marketability,” IP lawyer Dr. Emily Nytko-Lutz, who specializes in biotechnology patents, explained to The Verge. “There are other pathways involving self-affirmation of safety as well as a longer food additive review process, but the FDA’s authorisation with a ‘No Questions’ letter is a middle ground.” Wildtype salmon is now on the menu at Haitian restaurant Kann in Portland, Oregon, and the company has opened a waitlist for the next five restaurants to stock the fish. It joins Upside Foods and Good Meat, two companies with permission to sell cultivated chicken in the US, while Mission Barns has been cleared by the FDA but is awaiting USDA approval for its cultivated pork fat. At a state level, the situation is more complicated, with eight states issuing bans on lab-grown meat as the technology becomes a conservative talking point.
The FDA has granted accelerated approval to sunvozertinib (Zegfrovy) for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations, as detected by an FDA-approved test, whose disease has progressed on or following platinum-based chemotherapy.1 The efficacy of the agent was examined in the multinational, open-label WU-KONG1b trial (NCT03974022). Data showed that sunvozertinib elicited an objective response rate (ORR) of 46% (95% CI, 35%-57%), with a duration of response (DOR) of 11.1 months (95% CI, 8.2-not evaluable). About the Trial WU-KONG1 Part B enrolled patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations confirmed in tumor tissue.2 Patients needed to have an ECOG performance status of 0 or 1 and have received prior treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients were randomly assigned 1:1 to receive sunvozertinib at 200 mg daily or 300 mg daily. The primary efficacy population comprised 85 patients who received the agent at the 200-mg dose once daily until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity.1 The trial's primary end point was confirmed ORR by blinded independent review committee (IRC) assessment and RECIST 1.1 criteria; IRC-assessed DOR served as a key secondary end point.2 Other secondary end points included investigator-assessed ORR and DOR. Safety Spotlight The most common grade 3 or higher treatment-related adverse effects (TRAEs) observed with the agent at the 300-mg dose included diarrhea (17.1%), increased blood creatinine phosphokinase levels (10.8%), anemia (3.6%), rash (3.6%), increased lipase levels (3.6%), decreased neutrophil counts (2.7%), hypokalemia (2.7%), decreased appetite (2.7%), and asthenia (2.7%).2 TRAEs led to dose reduction and treatment discontinuation in 36.0% and 6.3% of patients, respectively. Investigators noted that most of the common TRAEs were grade 1 or 2 in severity and clinically manageable. No TRAEs led to fatal outcomes. Prescribing information for the drug includes warnings and precautions for interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis, gastrointestinal adverse reactions, dermatologic adverse reactions, ocular toxicity, and embryo-fetal toxicity.1
Dizal's ZEGFROVY® (sunvozertinib) Receives FDA Accelerated Approval as the Only Targeted Oral Treatment for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer with EGFR Exon 20 Insertion Mutations Dizal logo (PRNewsfoto/Dizal Pharmaceutical) News provided by Dizal Pharmaceutical Jul 02, 2025, 20:08 ET Share this article ZEGFROVY is the only approved targeted oral treatment for NSCLC with EGFR exon20ins Approval follows the U.S. FDA's Priority Review and is supported by the pivotal WU-KONG1 Part B study, in which ZEGFROVY demonstrated statistically significant and clinically meaningful benefits to patients SHANGHAI, July 2, 2025 /PRNewswire/ -- Dizal (SSE:688192), a biopharmaceutical company committed to developing novel medicines for the treatment of cancer and immunological diseases, announced today that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved ZEGFROVY® (sunvozertinib) for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 20 insertion mutations (exon20ins), as detected by an FDA-approved test, whose disease has progressed on or after platinum-based chemotherapy. ZEGFROVY, which has received Priority Review and Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA, is the only approved targeted oral treatment for NSCLC with EGFR exon20ins. This indication is approved under Accelerated Approval based on overall response rate and duration of response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial. "We are proud to have developed ZEGFROVY, a first-in-class oral therapy that offers a more effective treatment option with enhanced safety and ease of administration for NSCLC patients with EGFR exon20ins," said Dr. Xiaolin Zhang, CEO of Dizal. "The accelerated approval of ZEGFROVY marks a significant milestone that underscores our commitment to developing groundbreaking new medicines for patients with high unmet medical needs around the world." ZEGFROVY is an oral, irreversible EGFR inhibitor with uniquely designed molecular structure targeting a wide spectrum of EGFR mutations with wild-type EGFR selectivity. In August 2023, ZEGFROVY received accelerated approval in China. Today's FDA approval follows Breakthrough Therapy Designation and Priority Review granted by both the U.S. FDA and the Center for Drug Evaluation (CDE) of China's National Medical Products Administration (NMPA). The FDA approval is supported by data from the multinational pivotal study WU-KONG1 Part B (WU-KONG1B), aiming to investigate the efficacy and safety of ZEGFROVY in relapsed or refractory NSCLC with EGFR exon20ins. The study results were featured as an oral presentation at the 2024 American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting and were accepted to publish in the Journal of Clinical Oncology. "As the world's only approved targeted oral therapy for EGFR exon20ins NSCLC, ZEGFROVY has expanded the treatment paradigm in this therapeutic area that has long lacked convenient and effective treatment options," said Pasi A. Jänne, MD, PhD, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute of Harvard Medical School and lead principal investigator of WU-KONG1B. "Research findings from WU-KONG1B have demonstrated ZEGFROVY's significant therapeutic effects with consistent efficacy across both Asian and non-Asian patient populations. Its convenient once-daily oral dosing substantially improves administration convenience and patient adherence, which is an increasingly critical factor as lung cancer care shifts toward chronic disease management. The U.S. approval of ZEGFROVY® marks a landmark in scientific advancement and represents a meaningful milestone in addressing the long-standing unmet medical needs of this underserved patient population." "ZEGFROVY has demonstrated breakthrough therapeutic value in the treatment of EGFR exon20ins NSCLC, as shown in a rigorous multinational clinical trial. Its potent antitumor activity, manageable safety profile, and convenient oral administration position it as an optimal treatment option in clinical practice," said Prof. James Chih-Hsin Yang, MD, PhD, National Taiwan University Cancer Center Hospital and the Co-lead principal investigator of WU-KONG1B. "The approval of ZEGFROVY in major global markets not only offers new hope for patients, but also reinforces our commitment to patient-centered research and the continued advancement of precision medicine in lung cancer." "In NSCLC, EGFR exon20ins represent the third most common type of EGFR mutation. EGFR exon20ins are particularly challenging to treat due to their unique spatial conformation, diverse mutation subtypes, and high heterogeneity. As a result, patients face a poor prognosis and limited treatment options," said Prof. Mengzhao Wang, MD, PhD, lead principal investigator of the China-based pivotal study WU-KONG6 of ZEGFROVY and principal investigator of WU-KONG1B at Peking Union Medical College Hospital, "The results of the WU-KONG6 study demonstrated ZEGFROVY's clinical benefit superior to current options and lead to the drug's approval in China. The U.S. approval of ZEGFROVY will enable more patients around the world to benefit from this drug." The FDA simultaneously approved Thermo Fisher Scientific's Oncomine™ Dx Express Test as a next-generation sequencing (NGS) companion diagnostic (CDx) for ZEGFROVY to identify NSCLC patients with EGFR Exon20 insertions. NGS testing is recognized as a critical technology in cancer genomic profiling, facilitating the rapid and precise detection of DNA mutations in tumor cells. Combined with the Ion Torrent™ Genexus™ Dx System, the test delivers NGS results in as little as 24 hours to help inform more timely treatment decisions in patients with EGFR exon20ins NSCLC. Additionally, Dizal has completed enrollment for its multinational phase III pivotal WU-KONG28 study, evaluating ZEGFROVY versus platinum-based doublet chemotherapies in treatment naïve NSCLC patients with EGFR exon20ins across 16 countries and regions. At the 2023 European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) Annual Meeting, Dizal reported that ZEGFROVY, as a single oral agent, achieved a confirmed objective response rate (ORR) of 78.6% and a median progression-free survival (mPFS) of 12.4 months in the first-line setting. With its potent antitumor activity and favorable safety profile, ZEGFROVY demonstrated strong potential as an optimal first-line treatment for patients with EGFR exon20ins NSCLC.
Hikma receives FDA approval for TYZAVAN™ (Vancomycin Injection, USP) in the US (PRNewsfoto/Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.) News provided by Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. Jul 02, 2025, 08:00 ET Share this article Ready-to-infuse sepsis therapy marks new advancement in time-critical treatment LONDON, July 2, 2025 /PRNewswire/ -- Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC (Hikma), the multinational pharmaceutical company, today announced the approval of a novel formulation of the first-of-its-kind, ready-to-infuse formulation of vancomycin, under the brand name TYZAVAN™ (Vancomycin Injection, USP), by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). TYZAVAN™ is a glycopeptide antibacterial indicated for the treatment of the following infections in adult and pediatric patients (1 month and older) for whom appropriate dosing with this formulation can be achieved: (i) septicemia; (ii) infective endocarditis; (iii) skin and skin structure infections; (iv) bone infections; and (v) lower respiratory tract infections. The name TYZAVAN™ stands for "time-saving vancomycin," reflecting its purpose: delivering timely, simplified treatment when every minute counts. TYZAVAN™ is the only FDA-approved vancomycin product commercially available for all patients that is available at room temperature and requires no compounding, thawing, activation or dilution—reducing preparation steps and supporting faster treatment1. According to the Sepsis Alliance, someone in the U.S. is diagnosed with sepsis every 20 seconds, and a sepsis-related death occurs every two minutes.2 Sepsis is a leading cause of death and hospitalization, often requiring rapid antibiotic administration as a core part of treatment. Independent studies indicate that sepsis survival rate decreases by 15% after 87–113 minutes.3 "The approval of TYZAVAN™ underscores our team's exceptional R&D capabilities in developing innovative healthcare solutions that enhance patient care, particularly in time-sensitive situations," said Dr Bill Larkins, President of Hikma Injectables. "TYZAVAN™, available in ready-to-infuse aseptically filled bags, exemplifies our commitment to rethinking essential medicines by making them faster to administer, easier to manage and available when patients need them most. Our dedicated and specialised commercial team will drive the launch of TYZAVAN™, ensuring its successful introduction and adoption in US hospitals." TYZAVAN™ provides hospitals with a practical and scalable solution for improving time to treatment and reducing preparation complexity: Ready-to-infuse formulation – removes the need for on-site preparation and IV compounding, reduces strain on pharmacy and nursing staff, minimizes handling risk and reduces risk of medication errors Seven presentations (0.5g–2g) – supporting flexibility for fixed and weight-based dosing Room-temperature stability – shelf life of 16 months; no refrigeration needed Automated dispensing cabinet compatible – seamlessly fits into hospital workflows According to IQVIA, US sales of vancomycin injection were close to $200 million in 2024. This product has been approved for marketing in the United States by the US FDA. This product approval does not confer the right on Hikma, or any other party, to market this product outside the United States. Enquiries Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Susan Ringdal EVP, Strategic Planning and Global Affairs +44 (0)20 7399 2760/ +44 7776 477050 Steven Weiss US Communications +1 732 788 8279 About Hikma (LSE: HIK) (NASDAQ Dubai: HIK) (OTC: HKMPY) (rated BBB/stable S&P and BBB/stable Fitch) Hikma helps put better health within reach every day for millions of people around the world. For more than 45 years, we've been creating high-quality medicines and making them accessible to the people who need them. Headquartered in the UK, we are a global company with a local presence across North America, the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and Europe, and we use our unique insight and expertise to transform cutting-edge science into innovative solutions that transform people's lives. We're committed to our customers, and the people they care for, and by thinking creatively and acting practically, we provide them with a broad range of branded and non-branded generic medicines. Together, our 9,500 colleagues are helping to shape a healthier world that enriches all our communities. We are a leading licensing partner, and through our venture capital arm, are helping bring innovative health technologies to people around the world. For more information, please visit: www.hikma.com Important Safety Information for TYZAVAN™ (Vancomycin Injection, USP): CONTRAINDICATIONS TYZAVAN™ is contraindicated in patients with known hypersensitivity to vancomycin. WARNINGS & PRECAUTIONS Infusion Reactions – Hypotension, including shock and cardiac arrest, wheezing, dyspnea, urticaria, muscular and chest pain may occur with rapid TYZAVAN™ administration (e.g., over several minutes). The reactions may be more severe in pediatric patients. Nephrotoxicity – TYZAVAN™ can result in acute kidney injury (AKI), including acute renal failure, mainly due to interstitial nephritis or less commonly acute tubular necrosis. Ototoxicity – Ototoxicity has occurred in patients receiving vancomycin. It may be reversible or permanent. Ototoxicity manifests as tinnitus, hearing loss, dizziness or vertigo. Severe Dermatologic Reactions – Severe dermatologic reactions such as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), and linear IgA bullous dermatosis (LABD) have been reported in association with the use of vancomycin. Cutaneous signs or symptoms reported include skin rashes, mucosal lesions, and blisters. Clostridioides difficile-Associated Diarrhea (CDAD) – Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including vancomycin and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Hemorrhagic Occlusive Retinal Vasculitis (HORV) – Hemorrhagic occlusive retinal vasculitis, including permanent loss of vision, occurred in patients receiving intracameral or intravitreal administration of vancomycin during or after cataract surgery. The safety and efficacy of vancomycin administered by these routes have not been established by adequate and well-controlled trials. Vancomycin is not indicated for the prophylaxis of endophthalmitis. Neutropenia – Reversible neutropenia has been reported in patients receiving vancomycin. Phlebitis and Other Administration Site Reactions – Inflammation at the site of injection of vancomycin has been reported. Vancomycin is irritating to tissue and must be given by a secure intravenous route of administration to reduce the risk of local irritation and phlebitis. Administration of vancomycin by intramuscular (IM), intraperitoneal, intrathecal (intralumbar or intraventricular), or intravitreal routes has not been approved and is not recommended. The safety and efficacy of vancomycin administered by the intrathecal (intralumbar or intraventricular) route or by the intraperitoneal route have not been established by adequate and well controlled trials. Development of Drug-Resistant Bacteria – Prescribing TYZAVAN™ in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug-resistant bacteria. ADVERSE REACTIONS The clinically significant adverse reactions are described in the warnings and precautions section. DRUG INTERACTIONS Anesthetic Agents: Concomitant administration of vancomycin and anesthetic agents has been associated with erythema and histamine-like flushing. Piperacillin-Tazobactam: Studies have detected an increased incidence of acute kidney injury in patients administered concomitant piperacillin/tazobactam and vancomycin as compared to vancomycin alone. Ototoxic and/or Nephrotoxic Drugs: Concurrent and/or sequential systemic or topical use of other potentially neurotoxic and/or nephrotoxic drugs requires more frequent monitoring of renal function. 
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has issued a Complete Response Letter (CRL) to Lexicon Pharmaceuticals regarding the New Drug Application (NDA) for ZynquistaTM (sotagliflozin) as an adjunct to insulin therapy for glycemic control in adults with type 1 diabetes (T1D) and chronic kidney disease (CKD). Sotagliflozin for the treatment of T1D was evaluated in three phase 3 trials (inTandem1: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02384941; inTandem2: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02421510; inTandem3: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02531035). Findings from these studies showed treatment with sotagliflozin, in combination with insulin and glucose management, demonstrated statistically significant and clinically meaningful reductions in HbA1c. However, a clinically meaningful increase in diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) risk was seen in sotagliflozin-treated patients. We are sincerely grateful to the patients and physicians who participated in our Zynquista clinical trials, and the broader diabetes community who strongly advocated for Zynquista’s approval. Although this was not our desired outcome for sotagliflozin in this indication, we remain steadfast in our commitment to advancing our clinical pipeline. After the initial NDA was submitted in 2018, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter to Lexicon in 2019 rejecting the application. In June 2024, the Company resubmitted the NDA with a revised indication specifically targeting patients with mild to moderate CKD (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] between 45 and <60mL/min/1.73 m2 or a baseline measurement of eGFR ≥60mL/min/1.73 m2 and urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio ≥30mg/g). The application included post hoc analyses from the TANDEM clinical development program as well as post hoc analysis of the SCORED trial (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03315143), which evaluated sotagliflozin in patients with type 2 diabetes and moderate to severe CKD. With continued uncertainties regarding the risk of DKA, in October 2024, the FDA Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee had a meeting to review the Company’s resubmitted NDA for sotagliflozin. The advisory committee voted 11 to 3 against the approval of sotagliflozin stating that the benefits of sotagliflozin do not outweight the risks in adults with T1D and CKD. In response to the CRL, Mike Exton, PhD, chief executive officer and director of Lexicon said: “We are sincerely grateful to the patients and physicians who participated in our Zynquista clinical trials, and the broader diabetes community who strongly advocated for Zynquista’s approval. Although this was not our desired outcome for sotagliflozin in this indication, we remain steadfast in our commitment to advancing our clinical pipeline.” Prior to receiving the CRL, Lexicon announced strategic decisions to discontinue Zynquista commercial preparations after receiving a letter from the FDA noting deficiencies with the application. Sotagliflozin is currently approved under the brand name Inpefa to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death, hospitalization for heart failure, and urgent heart failure visit in adults with 1) heart failure; or 2) type 2 diabetes mellitus, CKD, and other cardiovascular risk factors. According to Lexicon, Inpefa will continue to be manufactured and made available to patients.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA or Agency) rejected the new drug application (NDA) for a drug marketing approval submitted by Lykos Therapeutics Inc. (Lykos) for its psychedelic MDMA drug on Aug. 9, 2024. Lykos submitted the application to secure FDA approval for use of the drug to treat post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). No other such psychedelic drug product is on the market. According to the Lykos press release following the decision, FDA said that it had completed its review of the NDA and determined that the drug could "not be approved based on data submitted to date." As such, the Agency requested that Lykos conduct an additional Phase 3 trial to further study the safety and efficacy of its product. The statement notes that Lykos plans to request a meeting with FDA to ask for reconsideration of the decision and further discuss the Agency's recommendations for a new submission in order to get regulatory approval, and the company stated, "Lykos will work diligently in the coming months to address FDA's concerns and to take advantage of agency processes to resolve scientific disagreements." In some ways, FDA's decision is not surprising. An FDA advisory committee in June 2024 found that Lykos had not proved that the drug was effective because patients could tell if they were receiving the MDMA therapy instead of a placebo and may have fared better as a result. The advisers also cited limited information regarding adverse events and potential clinical trial misconduct. FDA's recent ruling follows many of the advisory committee's findings. For example, in March 2024, the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER) issued a draft report saying it had "substantial concerns about the validity of the [Lykos trial] results." Citing what would become consistent flaws in the design of the trial, ICER said, "because of the effects of MDMA, the trials were, essentially, unblinded with nearly all patients who received MDMA correctly identifying that they were in the MDMA arm of the trials. This would always raise concerns about bias, but these concerns are particularly heightened as we heard from multiple experts about the very strong prior beliefs of those involved in the trials (as investigators, therapists, and patients) about the benefits of [the product]." Approximately 13 million Americans suffer from PTSD each year, with women and disadvantaged groups suffering disproportionately. Support for the Lykos MDMA product was particularly voiced by veterans. In addition, members of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate expressed support. FDA's decision applies only to the specific Lykos MDMA drug product. Holland & Knight expects continued support for psychedelics from policymakers. Congress, federal agencies – such as FDA, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and National Institutes of Health – and even state governments will remain actively engaged in discussions around relevant issues.
Edgewise drops 4% after FDA denies accelerated approval TheFly TheFly Jun 26, 2025, 05:21 AM A+ A- Edgewise Therapeutics (EWTX) said this morning that the FDA deemed the CANYON data alone insufficient for an accelerated approval of sevasemten. “The Agency reiterated that NSAA is a clinically meaningful endpoint for traditional approval,” however, the company added. The shares are down 4%, or 58c, to $13.75 in premarket trading.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Friday denied approval of an MDMA-based treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), the manufacturer said, a major setback for the use of psychedelic drugs as medicine. Drug company Lykos Therapeutics said the FDA told them the treatment “could not be approved based on data submitted to date.” Lykos said the FDA has requested an additional Phase 3 trial to further study the safety and efficacy of the treatment, but such studies often take years. The company said it plans to request a meeting with the FDA to ask for reconsideration. “The FDA request for another study is deeply disappointing, not just for all those who dedicated their lives to this pioneering effort, but principally for the millions of Americans with PTSD, along with their loved ones, who have not seen any new treatment options in over two decades,” Lykos CEO Amy Emerson said in a statement. The decision was widely expected after an independent FDA advisory panel overwhelmingly recommended against approving the treatment, which paired MDMA, commonly known as ecstasy, with talk therapy to treat PTSD. Up Next - The Hill's Headlines - July 5, 2025 The panel raised questions about the integrity of the trial studying the treatment. In particular, agency staff noted that patients in the trials were able to guess whether they had received MDMA or a placebo, making it virtually impossible to “blind” the study. They praised the promise of the treatment but said the risks far outweighed any benefits, and they expressed concern that the manufacturer’s scientific work was influenced by the psychedelic evangelism of its parent organization, the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies. They also questioned whether the company had appropriately tracked serious adverse events during the trials. Sign up for the Morning Report The latest in politics and policy. Direct to your inbox. Email address By signing up, I agree to the Terms of Use, have reviewed the Privacy Policy, and to receive personalized offers and communications via email, on-site notifications, and targeted advertising using my email address from The Hill, Nexstar Media Inc., and its affiliates “While conducting another Phase 3 study would take several years, we still maintain that many of the requests that had been previously discussed with the FDA and raised at the Advisory Committee meeting can be addressed with existing data, post-approval requirements or through reference to the scientific literature,” Emerson said. The decision generated an enormous amount of lobbying from advocacy groups, including combat veterans. Earlier this week, a bipartisan group of more than 80 House and Senate lawmakers sent letters to FDA and the White House urging the approval. The FDA has not approved any new treatments for PTSD in more than two decades, and proponents have said continued high rates of veteran suicide mean the government must do more to protect veterans. A growing body of research has shown that psychedelics like LSD, psilocybin mushrooms and MDMA can have significant positive impacts on conditions like PTSD. The application marked the first time the U.S. has considered a Schedule I drug — those considered to have a high potential for abuse such as heroin and LSD — for medical use. More than 13 million individuals in the U.S. live with PTSD, and veterans are disproportionately affected, according to estimates from the National Center for PTSD. But current treatments are notoriously not very effective.
Top Story Fate of AstraZeneca’s Andexxa unclear as FDA rejects full approval Matthew Dennis Published : December 17, 2024 Ref: FirstWord Less than a month after a bruising FDA advisory committee meeting, the agency has issued a complete response letter (CRL) regarding AstraZeneca's bid to convert its anticoagulant reversal drug Andexxa (andexanet alfa) from accelerated to full approval. The fate of Andexxa is unclear at this stage; the FDA could seek withdrawal of the drug or ask for additional confirmatory data. AstraZeneca told FirstWord that "while discussions with the FDA are ongoing, Andexxa will remain on the US market." Granted accelerated approval back in 2018 as an antidote for the reversal of Factor Xa inhibitors, AstraZeneca gained Andexxa in 2021 through its $39-billion purchase of Alexion, which itself acquired the drug from Portola Pharmaceuticals a year earlier for $1.4 billion. Andexxa generated sales of $182 million in 2023, with AstraZeneca submitting a supplemental biologics application this past January seeking to convert the accelerated approval into a full approval. However, at last month's advisory meeting while discussing data from the ANNEXA-I confirmatory trial, panel members grappled with whether Andexxa's demonstrated benefits outweigh its risks. Ahead of the meeting, FDA reviewers highlighted "major safety findings," including a 14.6% thrombosis rate in the Andexxa arm of the study compared with 6.9% in the control group, along with higher thrombosis-related deaths.
FDA gives thumbs down to MDMA for now, demanding further research Updated August 9, 20247:11 PM ET By Will Stone A dose of MDMA. The drug has been studied as a treatment for PTSD and FDA has declined to approve it so far, asking for further research. A dose of MDMA. The drug has been studied as a treatment for PTSD and FDA has declined to approve it so far, asking for further research. Travis Dove for The Washington Post/Getty Images On Friday, drugmaker Lykos Therapeutics received word from the Food and Drug Administration that the agency has decided not to approve MDMA-assisted therapy for PTSD at this time. Instead, the agency asked the drugmaker to further study the safety and efficacy of the treatment. The heavily anticipated announcement came in the form of a “complete response letter” from the FDA to Lykos, according to a company press release.
FDA denies Ocaliva full approval in primary biliary cholangitis; safety data still in play Add topic to email alerts Key takeaways: In line with an earlier panel decision, FDA denied full approval to Ocaliva for primary biliary cholangitis. FDA continues to “consider safety data” for the drug. The FDA issued a complete response letter to Intercept Pharmaceuticals indicating it cannot grant full approval to the company’s supplemental new drug application for Ocaliva as a treatment for primary biliary cholangitis. As Healio previously reported in September, the FDA Gastrointestinal Drug Advisory Committee voted 13 to 1 with no abstentions that the benefits of Ocaliva (obeticholic acid, Intercept Pharmaceuticals) on clinical outcomes in patients with PBC without cirrhosis or compensated cirrhosis with portal hypertension could not be verified with available data. Image: Healio The FDA issued a complete response letter to Intercept Pharmaceuticals indicating it cannot grant full approval to the company’s supplemental new drug application for Ocaliva as a treatment for primary biliary cholangitis. In its letter, the FDA noted that it was unable to approve the company’s drug application in its current form. However, the agency stated that it was “continuing to consider safety data” from Intercept’s postmarketing requirement confirmatory trial, 747-302, indicating a potential benefit not found in other available therapies. “We believe in the totality of evidence supporting Ocaliva and intend to work closely with the FDA on next steps,” Vivek Devaraj, the U.S. president and chairman at Intercept, said in the press release. “We remain committed to patients living with PBC who have limited treatment options.” Under its accelerated approval status, Ocaliva will remain a secondary option for patients with PBC who fail to adequately respond to first-line ursodeoxycholic acid or cannot tolerate its use.
FDA Denies Approval of Regeneron’s Linvoseltamab for Multiple Myeloma, Cites Third-Party Issues August 21, 2024 | 2 min read | Tristan Manalac Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Email Print Regeneron logo on a light brown building Regeneron logo on a light brown buildingShutterstock/Lev Radin The regulator’s Complete Response Letter flagged problems at a third-party fill/finish site, which Regeneron says it has already addressed. The manufacturing facility is currently awaiting reinspection. The FDA on Tuesday denied Regeneron Pharmaceuticals’ application for linvoseltamab as a treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who had progressed after at least three prior lines of therapy. In a Complete Response Letter, the regulator pointed to problems at a third-party fill/finish site during a pre-approval inspection. Regeneron emphasized in its announcement that manufacturing was the “sole approvability issue” that the FDA raised. The agency did not cite concerns regarding linvoseltamab’s efficacy and safety data or Regeneron’s ongoing confirmatory study for the candidate, according to the company. Regeneron said it has since worked with the third-party service provider to address the FDA’s concerns and the fill/finish site is now awaiting another inspection over the next few months. Tuesday’s rejection did not come as a surprise to Regeneron. In its second-quarter 2024 business report earlier this month, company officials revealed to investors that the FDA had informed them of its site visit findings. “While we now believe these findings have been resolved, a reinspection will be required, and therefore we anticipate any potential FDA approval for linvoseltamab is likely to be delayed beyond the Aug. 22 PDUFA date,” CEO Leonard Schleifer said during an investor call. Linvoseltamab is an investigational bispecific antibody that targets the BCMA protein and CD3 antigen. This mechanism of action allows linvoseltamab to bridge malignant B cells and the cancer-killing T cells, boosting the body’s anti-cancer response. Regeneron’s biologics license application for linvoseltamab is backed by data from the Phase I/II LINKER-MM1 trial, a pivotal dose-escalation and dose-expansion trial with more than 280 patients enrolled. In December 2023, the company released data from the study touting a 71% objective response rate after 11 months of treatment, with almost half of patients reaching complete response or better. However, linvoseltamab’s promising efficacy was marred by high rates of safety issues. The December 2023 readout showed that all 117 patients treated with the 200-mg dose of the bispecific antibody developed an adverse event, 85% of which were grade 3 or worse in severity. Fourteen patients died due to treatment-emergent adverse events. In June 2024, Regeneron posted updated data from LINKER-MM1, which validated linvoseltamab’s high response rate and additionally showed good overall and progression-free survival. Alongside LINKER-MM1, Regeneron is also running the Phase III confirmatory study LINKER-MM3, which is designed to assess the clinical benefit of linvoseltamab in heavily pretreated patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. According to its clinicaltrials.gov page, LINKER-MM3 is expected to be completed in 2032.